---
title: Serum v1.3.0 Released
date: 2019-11-28 11:23:12
tags: news, release
---

Today I'm releasing Serum v1.3.0, which hopefully will be the last minor update
before Serum v2. This version includes minor bug fixes, new features, and
enhancements to command line user experience.

- - -

## Fixed

- Fixes an issue which ignored custom template settings for blog posts.

## Improved

- Serum now displays relative paths from the current working directory, instead
  of absolute paths, whenever possible.

- Support for nested includes has been added. Now users can use the `include/1`
  macro inside their includes. Self-including or circular includes are
  intentionally not supported and these will result in errors.

- Serum provides more options for the length of preview text for each blog post.

    - `preview_length: {:chars, 200}` tells Serum to take the first 200
      characters from a blog post to generate a preview text. The next two
      options should be self-explanatory now.

    - `preview_length: {:words, 20}`

    - `preview_length: {:paragraphs, 1}` (Serches for `<p>` tags.)

    - Of course, you can still use the old value: `preview_length: 200`.

- Serum no longer emits ANSI escape sequences by default when the output is not
  a terminal. (i.e. when the output is written to a file, or when the output is
  piped to another program.)

  Run any Serum Mix tasks with `--color` or `--no-color` option to override
  this behavior.

## Added

- Users can now pass an arbitrary argument to a Serum plugin.

  The accepted value of plugin argument is defined by the plugin author, and
  this can be used to configure how the plugin should work.

- This update introduces a new `render/2` template helper.

  The `render/2` helper works like the existing `include/1` helper. However,
  unlike `include/1`, this helper dynamically renders the given include when
  the calling template/include is being rendered.

## Changed

- **BREAKING CHANGES for plugin authors**: The following plugin callbacks now
  accept one more argument: `args`.

    - `build_started/3`
    - `reading_pages/2`
    - `reading_posts/2`
    - `reading_templates/2`
    - `processing_page/2`
    - `processing_post/2`
    - `processing_template/2`
    - `processed_page/2`
    - `processed_post/2`
    - `processed_template/2`
    - `processed_list/2`
    - `processed_pages/2`
    - `processed_posts/2`
    - `rendering_fragment/3`
    - `rendered_fragment/2`
    - `rendered_page/2`
    - `wrote_file/2`
    - `build_succeeded/3`
    - `build_failed/4`
    - `finalizing/3`

  Please update your plugins by implementing the new callbacks above.
  Existing callbacks will still be supported, but they will be removed in
  later releases.
