---
title: Serum v1.2.0 Released
date: 2019-08-05 22:59:17
tags: news, release
---

Let me announce the minor update of Serum, **Serum v1.2.0!**

This update contains several usability and stability improvements, and new
features that can add more flexibility to your websites.
The notable changes are:

## Copying Extra Files to the Website Root

See [`files` directory](/Serum/docs/project-structure.html#files-directory).

## Custom Templates

See [Custom Templates](/Serum/docs/templates.html#custom-templates).

## Custom Page/Post Metadata

Now you can add any key-value metadata to your pages or posts. Suppose that
a page has the following header:

```
---
title: Hello, world!
label: Sample
summary: This is an example page.
magic-number: 42
---
```

The `"summary"` and `"magic-number"` are custom metadata, and they will be
exposed through the `:extras` key, so that you can freely use them anywhere in
EEx templates:

```lang-elixir
%Serum.Page{
  type: :page
  title: "Hello, world!",
  label: "Sample",
  extras: %{
    "summary" => "This is an example page.",
    "magic-number" => "42" # Note that values are always strings.
  },
  ...
}
```

- - -

Here's the full changelog for Serum v1.2.0. Please enjoy!

## Fixed

- Fixed an issue where the Serum development server crashes if the file system
  watcher backend is not available on the user's system. The server will work
  now, but features related to automatic reloading will be disabled.

- Now the prompt text (`8080>`) in the Serum development server CLI will catch
  up the console output, instead of lagging behind.

- Updated one of Serum's dependencies. Users will no longer see strange errors
  from "Tzdata" once a day.

## Improved

- `Serum.File.read/1` now checks if the value of `src` key in the input struct
  is nil. An error will be returned if so. Likewise, `Serum.File.write/1`
  checks the value of `dest` key.

- Now you can add any user-defined metadata to your pages and posts. Just put
  some lines like `key: value` in the header, and these metadata will be
  available at `@page.extras` (or `@post.extras`) in your templates.

## Added

- If you put any extra files and directories in `files/` directory, they will
  be copied to the root of your website. `files/` directory is a good place for
  your favicons, `robots.txt`, and so on.

- Added support for custom templates. Pages and blog posts now recognize the
  `template` key in their headers.

## Changed

- Docs: Marked some docs for internal modules as hidden, and organized
  moduledocs by categories. Hidden docs are still accessible via source codes.

- Overhauled codes which start and stop the Serum development server. The
  temporary output directory created by the server will now be cleaned up in
  most exit situations. Additionally, users will be able to see less horrifying
  error output when the server failed to start.

  For developers: The Serum development server and its command line interface
  have been decoupled. Starting the server with `Serum.DevServer.run/2` does
  not take you to the command line interface. Instead, you can call
  `Serum.DevServer.Prompt.start/1` to enter the server CLI.

  There are now two ways to get out of the CLI: The `quit` command stops the
  development server and returns. If you want to keep the server running, use
  the `detach` command. You can later enter the CLI again using the same
  `Serum.DevServer.Prompt.start/1` function.

- Changed format of the message output, with a new internal module which
  controls the console output.

- If there are more than one _identical_ errors, only one of them will be
  displayed. Usually these errors are from _one_ source and they will be gone
  all together if one error in the project source gets fixed.
